---
layout: post
title: Children Entering DCF Placement Annual Trend by Ethnicity
image: /img/hello_world.jpeg
---
Situation

Three decades ago the Connecticut Department of Children and Families (DCF) settled a suit that alleged "dangerous and unlawful policies and practices" by signing a consent decree. That notorious agreement, still in effect after almost three decades, mandated 22 outcome measures and appointed a federal monitor.

Data

In order to achieve and track the outcomes, DCF spent $13 million to build LINK, a statewide computer system. I was a business systems analyst on the initial project team from American Management Systems. Here I will look at some of the data generated by that system.

Question

Is DCF making "reasonable efforts to keep families together"?Specifically, the null hypothesis here is that children of different ethnicities receive the same treatment with regard to being placed with relatives, rather than being sent to a group home, into foster care, and so on.

Initial findings

The chart below shows that the average number of children placed with relatives is higher for white youngsters and much lower for those whose ethnicities are classified as "other".

Revised findings

We find that only the Hispanic race group has significantly better relative care placement and speculate that this is due to persistent cultural differences rather than system bias statewide, by region, or by office.

Histograms showing numbers by office and region

Are races and cases spread across offices evenly? That is, do some offices favor certain placements, thereby skewing the picture on race?

I assume a region has one or more offices and each office is in one and only one region

Could the month have anything to do with it? Winters are cold in New England. If one race is weighted toward initial placement in the winter, then that could, for example, mean more hospital placements. Which would be due to the weather, not race.
